[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
just as a caveat to Exercise 5,
there's some deceptive things to this
exercise because it seems at first
blush that what I'm asking you to
do is pretty straight forward.
But it's as they say,
it's the devil is in the details.
When you start to think about
the implications of this code,
you start to realize it's a little more
complicated than you might be aware.
Asking you to do this
exercise from scratch
if you've never done anything
with Promises is a tall order.
So I provided the solution already
using the callback approach.
So this is a complete program
that uses the callback pattern.
If you were to run this code,
if we were to open up Exercise 5,
ex5.html, and we were to run it,
you'll note here in my console.
Well, it's locked up on me for
a second, so just
a moment.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, so watch
particularly not the requesting comments,
cuz I have those in there just for
debugging purposes, but watch particularly
how I'm printing out first text,
middle text, last text, and then complete,
making sure that it's in that order.
But watch the timings on these things,
because I have these set up to fake
like they are randomly taking longer.
Different files taking different longer.
So, technically the files quote,
unquote load at different times.
But the mechanism that I've put in place
makes sure that they always get printed
out in the correct order.
So, here, we may see, if I get lucky,
we may see examples where
in this particular case, it looks like
it's waiting for all of them to finish,
because maybe the first one was
the long pole in terms of delay.
But if we get lucky, we might see
the text peppering in one at a time,
depending on my random number generator.
So there you saw just a little bit
of a delay, where the first and
the second ones were printed.
It was still waiting on them for
the last one.
The spirit of this exercise is
you do wanna make sure they go in
the correct order.
But you don't wanna have to wait for
all of them to finish
before you start rendering.
If the first one comes back
quickly render it right away.
Kind of in the same mind set as
we'd take progressive rendering,
show things as quickly as possible.
So if I get lucky we'll get a random
choice here where it'll actually
print out the first one very early
with kind of a very short delay.
And then you'll see, so there's one,
it's still waiting on the second one.
And then it waited just another
millisecond for the last one.
So the mechanism that we put into place
to make sure that they stay in the proper
order requires us to track some state in
between three independent sets of actions.
Cuz we need to request them all at once,
but they need to modify some shared state,
so that we know when all
the responses have some back and
we know when the first one has
come back that we can render it,
but if the second one comes back first we
need to be still waiting on the first.
So, the point of this is that
asynchronisity oftentimes requires you
to track additional state
between your separate actions.
In this case, the loading of the files.
Now, I'm just faking it.
This is a fake AJAX that just sets
up a random delay between one and
nine seconds long.
I immediately print out
that we're requesting it,
but I just set up a time out and
then send you the information back.
So we're faking an AJAX and we're
faking the contents of these files, but
you could easily extrapolate that
these could be real Ajax calls that
on the network might have different
timings just depending on.
Network conditions and so forth.
So here's how I call that, I call that
fake AJAX I give it a file name that I
wanna request and
I set myself up with a callback.
So I wanna be notified when it happens.
And I've decided to have one
callback that gets called for
every single one,
that's called file received.
So this one gets called when
all three of them are called.
And we're gonna internally track a state
in a variable that we call responses for
the responses that have come back.
And so each time we get a new
response that we didn't have before,
we add it to our internal state.
And then we loop through our
responses to figure out if
there's one that we can render yet.
So we start at the beginning and
we say, do we have response 1?
If so, render it.
And then when we get to 2, we can't render
2 unless 1 was already rendered, so
we just do a simple for loop through
our state tracker to see whether or
not it's okay to output.
And then finally, if we haven't had any
cases where the responses were missing,
then we know that it's time to go ahead
and print out the complete message.
Now there's a thousand different ways
that you could track the internal state.
This is not the only way.
But I just wanted to show you using
the callback mechanism, we are forced
to track this internal state or track
this state between our different tasks
independent because if we want to
request these things at the same time.
We don't wanna wait for file1 to finish
before we request file2 and so forth.
And even if you're not dealing with file
loading this is still a very common thing.
You may have database requests where you
wanna fire off three database requests to
three different tables.
You don't know what order
they're gonna come in but
you need to make sure that you order the
responses in your JSON object properly so
you need to make sure that they
go into the correct slots.
So this is the kind of problem
that seems to crop up an awful
lot in asynchronous flow control.
And before Promises many of us
just hand rolled our own solutions
similar to things like this.
And the purpose of this exercise,
if you've never done anything with
Promises is to sort of explore.
So you may be confident enough
to try to write your own code if
you've looked at some Promise code before.
Or you may feel like,
I just wanna study the existing code.
So that's what we're gonna do here.
I'm just gonna show you,
using first my library and
then I'm gonna show you the same
way using native Promises.
I wanna show you one way that
we could do it using asynquence.
So the same utilities is true before,
we have a fake AJAX that's gonna
receive a callback, we have our output
function, all that stuff stays the same.
The stuff that changes is the stuff that's
underneath these little stars here.
All right, so I set myself up with
a different kind of utility, and
the previous one I called it getFile,
and he used callback methodology.
But here my getFile is gonna
do something different.
I'm gonna set up an asynquence.
I'm gonna set up a sequence, which is
essentially like setting up a promise.
And when that promise, and when that
fake AJAX call calls my callback,
that will notify my promise
that it has been completed.
But I'm returning my promise back so
that I'll be able to chain off of that.
I'll be able to listen for
that continuation event if
you remember from yesterday.
Now I want to make sure I call
all the files in parallel.
So technically it may look like
I'm calling them one at a time,
but because each one of these
is an actual function call,
I will request all three functions right
away, I mean all three files right away.
Now, the getFile function,
every time we call it,
it returns back a different promise,
a different sequence.
So I'm gonna have three different
promises that I'm going to slot into
a sequence of steps.
And you'll note here that
the way the sequence is written,
it makes it very clear
the behavior that we want.
It's a very declarative style of express
our asynchronous flow control because I'm
saying when file1 finishes loading,
then I want you go ahead and output file1.
And when file2 finishes loading,
output file2.
Now if file2 finishes early,
if it finishes before file1,
that promise just sits there and
waits for us.
Because Promises will track that
internal state that they have been
completed early before
we've listened to them.
That's one of the functionalities
that Promises give us.
So even if file2 finishes, even if file3
finishes before file1, because we've
expressed this in a chain, a series of
things that we want the steps to happen
sequentially, then we know that file2 will
be loading, and we'll make sure to wait.
If file2's not there by the time we get
to it, then we just pause the chain.
But if it is, we go on.
And the same for file3.
So expressing code like
this allows a developer,
I think, to reason about their
asynchronous flow control in a much more
reasonable way than in
the previous code snippet.
They functionally do the same thing.
They're functionally tracking
the same sorts of state, but
in a very different way, and
they produce a different source program.
And I think I said this yesterday,
but if I didn't, it bears repeating.
Source code is not written for computers.
Source code is written for developers.
The computer only cares about ones and
zeroes.
And there's literally
an almost infinite number
of source code programs that could produce
the same exact series of ones and zeroes.
So, you're not choosing to write source
code because you wanna help the computer.
You're choosing to write source code in a
particular way cuz you wanna help yourself
and your other team members.
So, when we write this
asynchronous flow control,
the goal is to write it in such
a way that it makes it easier for
us to maintain mentally,
to understand, to look at this code.
And I think asyncquence does
a pretty good job of that.
You might not, it's okay.
I'll show you the native Promise
approach to it, and you see whether or
not you feel like that's a better way.
So, in this particular way,
we've created ourselves a chain.
It's very clear what our
steps are gonna look like.
And if there's ever some problem, we know
exactly where in that chain to go looking.
Now if I-
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So when we say we're
having to get all these files and
parallels right?
>> Kyle Simpson: The files
will be requested in parallels.
>> Speaker 2: But the dots sequential to
the promises are chained in sequence.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes, correct.
That's exactly what it's doing.
It's making sure that things
will go in a sequential order,
a series.
>> Speaker 2: But
the files are requested in parallel.
>> Kyle Simpson: Mm-hm.
And so
if file2 comes back well before file1,
there's something that needs to
track the internal state of that.
And we've chosen to let the promise do
that rather than what we were doing in
the previous file where we had to have
some data structure to track that stuff.
Okay?
Now, if we wanted to just use
the plain old native Promises,
no Promise abstractions, no anything,
what would that look like?
Again, the stuff at the top
is completely the same.
The only stuff that's gonna change,
we have our getFile,
which should look almost
identical to the previous one.
We're gonna construct a promise object
rather than to construct a sequence, so
that part starts to look
pretty much the same.
We call the resolve function on it.
But here's where things start
to get a little different,
because we don't have quite as much
sugar built into the native Promises.
Things aren't gonna be quite as pretty.
They'll still functionally work but
they're not quite as pretty.
The first thing you'll note is that really
the only way practically to do this,
something in parallel is to call all
these methods literally in parallel and
we need to track those promises
individually because there's no
API like I've built into asynquence to
automatically bring those three promises
into a sequence like that,
there's no facility for that directly.
So I have a promise one,
a promise two, and a promise three.
That ensures that I've made
my requests in parallel.
And here's how I chain them together.
I take advantage that
the first one is a promise, so
I can call the then method directly on
the first promise and do an output.
And then after that output's done,
It would have been nice if kind of like we
did with asynquence if there was a sugar
that would allow me to pass that
promise directly into the chain.
But unfortunately the native
Promises don't allow that so
we have to do a little function
that returns our promise.
So that will chain the promise two into
this part of the chain and then an output.
And then chain promise three into this
part of chain and then an output.
Still, functionally it's pretty similar in
terms of being able to reason about it.
A little bit less sugar.
So the comparison there is to give you
that abstraction libraries provides
you better sugar, which gets more and
more of the cruft out of the way and
lets you focus more of your attention
on the things that you actually
care about rather than the cruft.
Okay.
But, either way, using the built-in one or
using the library,
it's pretty reasonable to express
this in a Promises mindset.
Just real briefly I want to show you,
this is going to look a lot more complex,
but it's actually going to betray
that there's a whole lot more power
under the covers than what we're doing.
Because what if this wasn't a preset
number of promises that we knew about?
What if we were loading
potentially hundreds of files or
potentially hundreds of database requests?
We didn't really know how many there were.
You couldn't practically write
out p1 through p1000 and
manage that code, so how would we do
this in a way that could use utilities,
that have looping capabilities,
and so forth?
We can use the array
functionalities of map and
reduce to solve those
problems pretty nicely.
So again, I will first show you
using the asynquence approach.
Using the asynquence approach,
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
have an array of these things.
In this case, it's still just three, but
it could be an array
of a thousand of them.
I'm gonna use the map function, which map,
if you don't know what it does,
it takes an array, it runs the function
against each element in the array, and
whatever that function returns
replace the original element.
So it's doing a one-to-one mapping
of elements in array from one
thing to a transformed version.
In this case,
sometimes people do that to like
transform a bunch of strings to
uppercase or something like that.
In this case, I'm gonna transform
the first array of strings,
which are file names,
into an array of promises.
Basically an array of sequences.
So, that's why I'm calling .map(getFile).
Remember, getFile takes an input and
it returns an output.
So that's exactly what we want.
We want a function that takes something
in and returns a replacement.
So we can just call map(getFile).
And that will now leave us,
if we were to inspect that in a console,
we would now,
instead of having an array of strings,
we'd have a string of
three asynquence promises.
Okay?
Now, I'm
gonna call map again on that array, so
I'm gonna do another level of doing it.
So I'm gonna be taking in sequence for
each one of the elements in the array,
and what I'm going to do is tack on,
chain on,
a output to each one of those promises.
So I've created essentially through
a looping mechanism, the exact same thing
that we did manually with the one, two and
three in our previous code snippet.
And I take that full array, that complete
array that's been produced from that which
is now an array of promises that
are loading in parallel but
they've got their outputs
chained in the proper order.
And I pass all of that array
into my asynquence API
using the normal apply approach that
you would have available to you.
And, finally, the output works.
So this code works.
And this is more flexible, it's more
powerful to us now because we don't have
to manually code our sequence,
we can take advantage of looping.
Finally, how would we do
this same sort of technique,
how would we do it with Promises?
It looks similar, but it's gonna be
a little bit different because, again,
the native Promises don't have
quite as much sugar to them.
Again everything at the top is the same.
Our getFile is the same.
The only thing that's gonna change down
here, the first thing that we're gonna do,
we're going to do an array
of our elements and
we're gonna do a map(getFile)
just like we did before.
But now, because we're not using
asynquence and we don't have some of that
sugar, we're gonna need to do a little bit
more work to massage what we're doing so
we're going to call a reduce function
rather than another map function.
And I won't get into all
the details of reduce, but
reduce starts with an initial state of
an element, and it passes that in for
each element and the idea is that
you sort of add on or chain on.
So in this case we're gonna start with a
promise, and we're gonna for each element
in our array we're gonna chain on our
promise to that and pass the chain along.
So at the end we get one big chain that
has all of our promises chained together,
and we used reduce to do that.
And then of course finally we
call then to output our complete.
So hopefully that provides you
some good code to go back and
look at and compare yourself as you're
starting to try to think about Promises.
You can kind of get a sense of doing
things kind of the manual way which
produces nice pretty looking code but
you also have the power to
use these looping constructs in
a pretty powerful way as well.
Any questions about that
exercise before we move on?
>> Speaker 3: Is promise similar to
threads [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: There are no threads.
The question was is Promises similar
to threads or thread safety.
There are no threads in JavaScript.
JavaScript is a single-threaded language.
The model for concurrency in JavaScript
is called the event loop which means
only one piece of code can be running on
the JavaScript engine at any given time,
and it just you put yourself on the end of
the queue and then your function gets run.
So, we don't have any
worries about thread safety.
We do have shared memory.
So we do have that issue in concurrency,
and Promises kind of
not really completely reduced the idea of
shared memory, but they go more towards
a functional nature where there isn't a
shared memory block that you're managing.
You're managing state
inside of each promise.
So the fact that you have a bunch of
promises chained together is what manages
the state, rather than having some big
global variable that everybody modifies
concurrently.
>> Speaker 3: Okay,
no issues of [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle Simpson: That's just not,
it's just not possible in JavaScript
to produce that kind of mechanism.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: The question from Derek A,
is your coding style a specific pattern
with regards to dropping the dots and
chaining methods like this or
is that just a personal habit?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's to make things
easier for you to read.
It's not really even a particular
style that you should do.
I tried to make it easier to read when
I'm illustrating things for people.
So, I'm trying to make it clear that
this is a separate chain from that.
>> Speaker 4: And it's allowed in
the langauge because it's just
waiting around to see, the statement
doesn't end until the semicolon, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Correct.
>> Speaker 4: Is that why it's allowed?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yep.
It's pretty common,.
That's an idiomatic style that
comes kinda from JQuery world.
It's pretty common that you put each chain
element on it's own line or whatever.
>> Speaker 4: We have another question.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Do you plan on covering
Promises and async in the forthcoming
async performance chapter if you don't
know JavaScript?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's a full book,
not just a chapter.
But yes, the async and performance book
is gonna heavily deal with Promises,
generators, co-routines, all that stuff.
>> Speaker 4: And
your async library?
>> Kyle Simpson: And asynquence, yes.
The typical style that I've tried to do
is in these books, the main chapters of
the book deal with the core stuff
that we know about the language or
that we know about.
And then I would probably use
an appendix to discuss my own library.
Okay.
I think that's it for what we're gonna
go through on those old exercises.
Again, if you run across any
other questions at any time,
it's kind of an open invitation to
everybody that takes a workshop with me,
as you go through this a month from now or
six months from now,
if you have questions,
feel free to reach out.
There's a lot of exploration and
things like that and
I'm not saying I have it perfect or right.
It's just to get you going
thinking about this sort of stuff,
yeah?
>> Speaker 5: Where is the context
by the time you get to that last end?
>> Kyle Simpson: In which file?
>> Speaker 5: In this last one,
like.
>> Kyle Simpson: The Promises one?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah, what's your this at
the end?
>> Kyle Simpson: We're not dealing
with any this style coding at all.
I actually don't really
like this style coding.
Remember I said 95% of the time I use
kind of the lexical model for coding.
So Promises don't really stress
anything about a this binding.
And I completely avoid that
topic entirely in asynquence,
there's no this binding at all.